
New Old Things: Fabrication, Physical Computing,

and Experiment in Historical Practice

Devon Elliott, Robert MacDougall, & William J. Turkel University of Western Ontario

AbsTRAcT  Matter is a new medium for historical research, providing the opportunity to explore physical and experiential questions while working with digitized and materialized forms. (121)


///

Canadian Journal of Communication Vol 37 (2012) 121-128 ©2012 canadian Journal of communication corporation

///

"W e know that the real past is inaccessible, and all that remains is evidence and in-

ference. This realization creates no licence for interpretive abandon, but rather the op-

posite. It is our deep obligation ever to seek out new ways of learning from and listening

to the past. “The historical record does not only degrade over time; it can also become

more articulate,” Peters writes in his exploration of history as communication

(2008, 24)." (Turkey, et al. 128)

///

Rather than faithfully re-enact-

ing sexist or orientalist practices for the sake of historical accuracy, we can play with

them for the sake of experiment. (127)

///

There is also an element of performance in this work, something

we share with the historical actors we are studying. stage magicians, attic inventors,

and crusading machinists all depended on public engagement to make sense of their

activities, and we do too. (127)

///

obviously, there is an element of play to this kind of research. In fact, one of the

main reasons that we do it is because it is fun (127)

///

Fabrication and physical experimentation will not

transcend the impossibility of directly accessing the past, but they do offer another

route toward apprehending what was happening and how events such as magical per-

formances were constructed and experienced." (123)

///

 series of projects that allow us to imagina-

tively remake past technological artifacts and to experiment with past technological (123)

///


Working with actual, physical stuff offers the historian new opportunities to

explore the interactions of people and things. W e fabricate objects related to our own
historical interests, and then we play with them, modify them, share them with other

people, and use them to ground conversations about the past and our relationship to

it. What has been digitized can be re-materialized, and digitized again, and so on, in a

tight loop that allows us to take best advantage of the different affordances of bits and

atoms. Emerging technologies, many of them created by open source hacker, maker,

or do-it-yourself groups, provide historians with the opportunity to explore physical

and experiential questions while working with digitized and materialized forms. (122-3)

